There are times when you want to consume or call
a publicly accessible web service or API in your application.
If there's a web service or API available that provides the data you need,
it doesn't make sense for you to build one from scratch.
This allows you to deliver your products and services faster to your end users.
Let's say you have an application that you'd like to display fun jokes.
Let's look at the process of creating an application
that consumes an existing RESTful web service.
The publicly accessible API is found here.
It randomly fetches jokes.
If you request the URL through your web browser, or a postman,
or call, you'll receive a JSON document that looks something like this.
Here's an example response.
The setup is, what's the best thing about elevator jokes?
The punchline is, they work on so many levels.
Their response isn't JSON.
This format is not that useful when fetched through a browser or through curl.
A more useful way to consume a REST web service is programmatically.
To help you with that task,
Spring provides a convenient template called REST template.